Well, everyone, we have a very special
episode of Let's Talk with Cyrus Jansen
because we are joined by the one and
only Professor Jang Ja Chin.
>> Thanks, Cyrus.
>> And it's such a pleasure to be here,
guys. We're actually filming this live
in Beijing in your apartment. I'm so
grateful that you've invited me into
your home. [snorts]
>> Well, well, I'm very grateful that
you've come all this way. I feel very
comfortable in my own house. Absolutely.
So, this is my first interview inside my
own apartment. So,
>> yeah, this is this is amazing. saying,
"Well, professor, I've been a huge fan
of your content, uh, you know, for a
while. And and what's so incredible is
your amazing rise on YouTube. You know,
you've really become, you know, probably
the the hottest geopolitical YouTuber,
uh, in the world right now. And I think
a lot of that started with your very
early prediction. You know, you were
very famous for making some big big
predictions that Donald Trump would win
the 2024 election, that he would most
likely start a war with Iran. And I want
to start our interview today kind of
looking back at those predictions. you
know what was the biggest thing that a
lot of analysts were missing you know
why did they miss those stories and how
were you able to predict those
>> yeah so what I look for when I watch the
news are these anomaly like things that
sort of stand out and don't really make
much sense so uh the event that drew my
attention is in January January 2020
Donald Trump ordered the assassination
of General Kasam Salammani
>> who was the Middle East envoy for Iran
and he was in charge of relations with
Iran's proxies, Hezbollah, the Shia
militias in Iraq, the Houthi and Syria.
So was coordinating overall Iranian
foreign policy in the Middle East. And
he was doing that for the past 20 years
and he was doing it with a corporation
of the Americans because usually when
you do foreign policy, you need a peer,
a counterpoint to coordinate. And so
General Kasam Salmani never really felt
he was in he was threatened by the
America because like why would they why
would they kill him? If they kill him
then the Americans would lose the
ability to coordinate policy in the
Middle East. So I think that the
assassination of Kasan Salmani it was an
anomaly. It didn't make much sense. But
also remember in that context if you
were to kill a diplomat that's a
declaration of war.
>> Right.
>> Right. Because if you were to do that
then the the Iran would be obligated to
declare war on you. So, um, that I think
was the biggest sign that Donald Trump
was intent on a war against Iran. And it
was only because he lost the November
November 2020 election, so that the war
was delayed,
>> right?
>> But you could surmise that if he were to
come back into office, then he would
declare war on Iran,
>> right?
>> So, these two things were linked
together. If Donald Trump could win in
2024, then he would most certainly
declare war against Iran. So, we're now
entering into the, you know, fifth month
of this conflict. And I think, you know,
what's interesting is is we've had a
ceasefire. Uh, you know, we say it's
about about a 60-day ceasefire, but
we've already seen a tremendous amount
of problems, right? We've got Israel is
continuing to invade and occupy parts of
Lebanon. Uh, that seems to be a red
line, you know, for the Iranians. We
also see that, you know, there's a big
theory out there that potentially the
United States is just filling up the oil
reserves. Yeah. and that they're really
gearing up for a phase two here, you
know, potential, you know, ground
invasion. That's right.
>> Um, what are your thoughts on that? And
and I guess, you know, you predicted so
accurately the past, you know, what is
going to happen now in the next in this
next phase of the war? So I think the
ceasefire the uh two-month ceasefire and
thisou is all a delaying tactic because
ultimately uh the United States wants
regime change in Iran and to do so um
they need to accomplish three major
goals. Okay. The first major goal is
basically to destroy the Iranian economy
and you do that by limiting their
ability to export oil to China and to
other places. Right? And the goal there
is to um create as much civilian
discontent as possible. That's goal one.
Goal two is to launch ground incursions
into Iran. And right now they they have
about 60,000 troops in the area. And
60,000 is not enough to actually invade
Iran. So the goal is to facilitate civil
discontent in the country. Basically,
you want to cause a Kurdish uprising in
the uh northwest of the country. And I
think that's going to happen very soon
where the Kurds launch an invasion of
northeastern of northwestern Iran backed
by American air power and backed by
American special forces and the rest of
the troops will be for logistics, for
supply, for organizational purposes. So
be very similar to what what we're
seeing in Ukraine where it's essentially
a proxy war where it's Ukrainian
soldiers who are on the front line but
it's NATO uh weaponry, NATO
intelligence, NATO special forces, NATO
command and control and uh NATO uh
financing, right? So that's how they
want to do the ground invasion. They
don't they don't want to commit that
many uh American soldiers because each
time you have an American casualty
>> uh it's huge news back in America and
this war is already unpopular in
America. Okay, so that's uh um uh part
two of the plan, a ground uh incursion.
Um and then part three is to dislodge
Iran from the st of Humus. Uh because if
you able able to accomplish that, then
uh oil could uh flow freely for the
Humus and there'll be less stress on the
global economy. Right? So these are the
three major uh pillars of American
strategy moving forward. uh to destroy
the Iranian economy to uh launch
strategic ground incursions not a
full-scale ground invasion but strategic
>> and limited and the third is to regain
control over the strait of Humus and to
do that um the strategy moving forward
what America wants to do is first of all
create as much political divide in Iran
as possible and that's what theou is
structured to do
>> right because if you read the actual the
14 points of theou it's very favorable
to Iran
>> right
>> it promised to lift sanctions It um
promised $200 billion in investment to
the country. It uh promises to unfreeze
Iranian assets in Qatar.
>> Right.
>> Uh so this is extremely favorable to the
Iranians. Correct.
>> But there's a point in there that is not
negotiable, which is the Iranians demand
that Israel withdraw from Lebanon.
Correct.
>> Right. So what I think the structure the
MOU would structure you to do is create
a divide between the military leadership
under the under the IRGC and then the
political leadership in Tran, right?
Because if you're the political
leadership, what you're first and
foremost concerned about is domestic
political stability,
>> right? [snorts]
>> And you're also concerned about your
relations with other powers such as
China and Pakistan and Russia. And so
you actually are willing to give up
Hezbollah, right? If if the only point
of contention is Hzbollah, you're like,
"We don't want Hezbollah. Hezbollah is a
loose cannon. Let's just focus on
economic cooperation." Right? But if
you're the IRGC, you are morally and
religiously and politically obligated to
protect Hezbollah at all cost. Right? So
the MU is almost structured to be a
wedge issue between the RGC and the
political leadership as represented by
uh President uh Periskin in Tran. Right.
>> Okay. So that's the first strategy. The
second strategy are um limited bombing
campaigns in southern Iran. And this
this this already what's happening today
uh these these past 24 hours, you saw a
massive bombing campaign against
southern Iran because if you were to
launch a ground invasion, that's a place
you would do it. Uh you would send in
troops to take over the street of Hammuz
and then occupy um the islands in order
to strangle the Iranian uh economy. The
third thing is maybe backdoor diplomacy
where you're applying pressure
politically and diplomatically on Iran
come to a political settlement. Okay.
So, so we're seeing a lot of these
strategies being played out in real
time. They're hidden from you, but the
goal ultimately is uh regime change.
>> So, I I want to talk about that first
point is obviously attacking the Iranian
economy, which we've we've certainly
seen, right? The economy has been
attacked. It's struggling. I've had on
my show Professor Muhammad Randi.
um who you know is a very outspoken
voice you know for Iran but he's
admitted that as well that that the
Iranian economy is struggling it's been
hit hard but in the history of the
United States you know launching these
air campaigns and conquest around the
world I I find it very difficult because
you know the theory in sense works that
we can you know create you know economic
instability and the people will revolt
up and overthrow that regime
>> yes
>> but we've actually never seen that play
out even in for example I'm from Florida
and you know Cuba we've always used that
tactic you know against Cuba and and I
think what it is is it ends up hardening
the people
>> and it ends up saying well you know we
don't want to actually rise up against
it we're actually going to double down
and support the regime more what are
your thoughts on that
>> yeah so actually this uh strategy has
actually worked before
>> okay so I would point out the color
revolutions okay
>> uh that we saw that started out in
Tunisia and then spread out over to
Egypt these color revolutions are very
effective if you actually said these
color revolutions it's state department
CIA finance and organized
And so what happened the state
department through NOS's such as a Soros
open society foundation they go into a
nation state and they will finance these
NOS's that are you know helmed by young
visionaries who want a democratic future
for their country. They will also co-op
private media and and then a lot of
these people will be flown into
Washington DC to be trained on how to
promote democracy in their country. And
this is this is like basically the color
revolution network
>> and um they're very open about this. You
can go online and there's lots of news
reporting about how effective these
color revolution playbook is and you
know and you know Brian Burlectic of New
Atlas he's talked a lot about uh this
playbook and also like if you look at
these uh governments in these past 20
years what happened in Libya
>> and Syria it's it follows a very similar
pattern where the United States finances
these um rebel groups and then uh the
Americans will insert special forces to
lead these rebel groups. And then um
there's a heavy American bombber
campaign against Libya and Syria which
then allows for regime change. This has
proven very effective for the past 20
years.
>> Iran is a different case because Iran it
is a cohesive civilization state.
>> Correct.
>> They're very proud of being Persian.
Right.
>> Also they've been under sanctions ever
since 1979. Ever since 1979 they knew
that they would eventually confront the
great Satan. They knew that eventually
America would want to regime change
their government. So they've been
preparing at least for 20 years, right?
Because in 2003 when United States went
into Iraq and the Iranian people were
were able to see what happened in Iraq,
they knew that eventually America would
come and do the same thing to Iran,
which is like they promised democracy,
but all they want is chaos, right? So
the Americans went into uh Baghdad in
2003 and they promised democracy to the
people. And at first the people were
very enthusiastic. But uh then Paul
Bremer goes into Iraq and issues uh
order number two. And order number two
is the debuffation of the nation. So if
you belong to the BA Baptist party, you
can no longer work in government, in the
military, and in the police force. And
that's like the entire elite, right?
That's the entire bureaucratic elite.
And so you basically make the country
dysfunctional. And this is what's led to
the sectarian violence that's plagued
the country for the past 20 years. So
the Iranians know perfectly well what
the Americans intend. They know exactly
how the Americans will go about regime
change and there so they've been
preparing for the past 20 years and as
we've as we've seen for these past few
months the the strategy has been very
effective at repelling the Americans.
So, you know, as we're entering in this
this fifth month here, you know, I think
we've we've established that thisou is
really, you know, buying some time for a
larger escalation like like you
mentioned, uh do you think, you know,
how would you judge Iran's response over
the last 5 months? Do you believe that
they're in a stronger position now? Have
they been able to, you know, withstand
the United States forces, you know, as
far as military wise, you know, have
they exceeded your expectations? Did you
think they've done better than they than
many thought would happen? I mean, we
again, you know, just for context, we we
I think a lot of people in America
thought this would be like Venezuela,
you know, very simple war. Let's go in
one or two weeks, you know, we're going
to just get this and we're done.
>> Well, the entire American strategy was
predicated on that Iran was will be like
Venezuela, right? So the idea is on the
first day they go in they kill the
Ayatollah and then the Iranian people
will rise up and overthrow the regime
and American air power will come in to
support these pro-democracy protesters
and then uh the Iranians will sue for
peace. The Americans will be able to
establish a very pro-american regime in
Tran. Right. Okay. That was the entire
strategy going in and everyone
especially Donald Trump were surprised
by the fierce Iranian response. First of
all, uh the regime has proven to be much
more cohesive and resilient than
Americans could possibly imagine because
they killed like I think up to like
three tiers of leadership, right? So not
only they kill the top leadership, they
but they killed the replacement and then
the replacement to the replacement. So
it's really incredible the death of
Iranian of the Iranian backbench.
Correct. Right. So so that's really
surprised the Americans. Donald Trump
has said he's surprised that the
Iranians chose to close the Humus,
right?
>> And they chose to attack the GCC
nations, correct? Uh like Qatar. And he
was like, they can't do that. So the the
entire American strategy, I think, was
based on hubris. It was just based on
contempt for the Iranians. And so I
think that the Iranians have surprised
everyone.
>> Correct.
>> Okay. And I think that um in the first
month, I would say the Iranians have
clearly won this war. But then the
ceasefire happened, right? And you have
have to ask yourself why would the
Iranians agree to the ceasefire because
they were clearly winning the war and
they were clearly putting a lot of
strain on the global economy.
>> Correct.
>> Uh and if the global economy were to
collapse then you would have inflation
United States. You would have economic
collapse. The private credit bubble the
AI bubble would both collapse at the
same time. You would have massive
discontent. The Democrats would sweep
the midterms. Donald Trump would be
impeached. So all the Iranians had to do
was hold out until I would say July.
Right.
>> Right. But they signed they agreed to
the ceasefire and you have to ask
yourself why is this happening? I think
it's because there's been so much global
pressure on the Iranians to come to a
peace settlement
>> especially from East Asia uh China,
Japan and South Korea because these
economies are completely dependent on
energy from the Middle East. Um
especially from Iran's Islamic allies
like Pakistan. Correct.
>> Uh because they're also under a lot of
strain as well. So basically there's
just this global demand uh global
pressure on the Iranians to open the
moves and to come to a political
settlement with Americans as soon as
possible. And I think what this tells us
is the world is not interested in
justice. It's not interested in honor.
It's not interested in fairness. The
world is just interested in economic
stability and prosperity.
>> Correct. And so the Americans are
behaving like bullies. And the Americans
and the Israelis have shown they don't
care about the rules based international
order. They don't care about respecting
uh a nation sovereignty. They're
behaving like thugs in the international
system. Right?
>> But the world has come to conclusion
that you cannot negotiate with thugs.
Right? The Americans and Israelis are
going to do whatever they whatever they
want. You can't do you can't do anything
about it. So let's apply pressure on the
Iranians because the Iranians are
actually reasonable people,
>> right?
>> And so I think this has been completely
unfair to the nation state of Iran. But
I think that because of this dynamic,
the Iranians are under a lot more
pressure than Americans to come to a
political settlement. And so I think the
dynamic of the war has changed due to
the ceasefire. That's an interesting
point because um you know we actually
asked professor Morandi that very
similar question and he actually gave it
a very similar response that you know
due to a lot of pressure from the
eastern countries you know China uh you
know Japan and other allies that you
know that and also to to make Iran seem
like okay we're we're willing to play
ball here right we're willing to sit
down and have a conversation and and
come to this. Now let's talk a little
bit about this potential ground
invasion. You know like you said it's
you know it's a li it's going to be a
limited one. And I don't think you're
going to see hundreds of thousands of US
troops in there because that would be
certainly very unpopular in America, but
also, you know, probably catastrophic
for America. I would assume a lot of
lives would be lost if they actually
went that route. That's right.
>> So, what what is the what is the
feasibility of this, you know, as far as
you said, you know, supporting the
Kurds, you know, trying to get some
uprising, limited air strikes. Is that
is that going to be effective in this
next round that we because we I think
we're now all believing that we are
going to see more conflict in Iran in
this year,
>> right? So um the first thing to
understand is the Americans want to
fight this war as cheaply and as quickly
as possible right so that's the entire
mentality of the establishment in
Washington DC where they really believe
that you know like we take out the
alatola um the war's over so the
Americans are looking for like a very
easy uh one-step solution to this
quagmire that they're in
>> correct
>> right so they're they're always going to
pick the easy path and so a grand invad
invasion in the mind of Donald Trump um
has to be quick, lethal, and effective.
And so maybe he's thinking to himself,
if I send in special forces to steal the
enriched uranium of the Iranians, that
will end the war. Maybe if I send in a
task force, an um marine expedition unit
to take over Car Island, right,
>> that will end the war,
>> right?
>> Or maybe if I, you know, dislodge the
RGC from Humus, that will end the war.
They're not thinking about like a
four-year ground incursion that is
systemic, uh that is strategic and that
is viable. Okay? They're not thinking in
those terms. They're just thinking like,
you know, what is one thing I can do
really quickly or one strike that will
end this war. Very similar to Venezuela.
Okay? So, that's point one, right?
>> Point two is you're forced to use ground
forces just because of the economics of
war. M
>> what I mean by that is they tried one or
two months of aerial bombardment and
that's extremely expensive
>> especially because you're using uh
fighter planes like the F-15 that cost
about $90 million. So if one gets shot
down uh that's a lot of money but even
if they don't shoot shoot shoot these
things down you're expending a lot of
money on munitions to blow up mountains.
Right.
>> Right. So the economics of war compels
you to use ground forces because I have
to say this okay but human lives a lot
cheaper than fighter fighter planes.
>> So they want to continue this war they
have to use ground forces. That's point
two. Point three is the American
doctrine of war to use proxies. So what
they need to do is convince the Kurds,
convince the Iraqis, convince the Saudis
to commit ground forces against the
Iranians. They also want to maybe stir
up some ethnic tension in Balakiststan,
which is in the southeast corner of
Iran, right beside um Pakistan. So that
area is Sunni and the government in Tran
is Shia, right? So there's always been
this uh religious conflict. They also
might want to bring in uh Azarison in
the in the north, right? So the American
strategy is always to use proxies rather
to use their own forces. So I'd be very
surprised if you saw a massive American
ground invasion into the country. What I
think will happen is that once the
weather becomes cooler, maybe in 2
months time, you'll see uh special
forces embed themselves into ethnic
tribes in the country and you'll see uh
maybe limited ground attacks against
Iran basically trying to target the oil
infrastructure of the country trying to
dislodge IRCC from the shoo and trying
to stop as much ethnic tension in the
country as possible. Let's talk about
the uh the straight of hormones
specifically because I think you
mentioned earlier is that Donald Trump
was very surprised that they were able
to actually close that and
>> everyone told me told him they would do
it and he didn't listen. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I mean, and that was something
that Professor Morandi had a really
interesting uh insight on one of our
live streams. He said, you know, before
February 28th, we we never, you know,
really thought about that a lot, but now
after February 28th, we're going to be
thinking about that every day of the
future. You know, that we have that
leverage point. You know, we we see the
United States with, you know, arguably
the largest and most powerful navy in
the world, but Iran has been very
effective in using speedboats and much
smaller vessels to, you know, really put
the entire world economy at hostage with
that straightup form. Do you see, you
know, that, you know, is is the United
States ever going to be able to stop
Iran from that leverage point?
>> Okay, so before the war started, I made
two comments about the shamus. The first
comment is if Iran were to be attacked,
the very first thing they would do is
close off the short moves because that
is the point of the maxim maximum
leverage over the Americans. Okay,
that's the first comment. Second comment
is there's absolutely nothing nothing
whatsoever the Americans can do about
it, right? And we know because of
operation prosperity guardian where due
to uh what was happening in Gaza, the
Houthies closed off the Red Sea, three
national shipping um and told the
Israelis, you either stop this genocide
in Gaza or we will block off Red Sea
shipping. And so in response, the
Americans sent this massive naval for uh
flotillaa to the Red Sea called
Operation Prosperity Guardian. And this
was like a massive undertaking. And the
Americans went and they blew up a lot of
mountains and did no damage to the
hoofies at all. And the hoofies, by the
way, have two things. They have
speedboats and they have drones. But it
is a nature of asymmetrical warfare that
if you are committed and you um are
cohesive and you are conducting gullet
warfare, there's very little an empire
can do about this. And so what Operation
Prosperity Guardian convinced Iranians
is well we can easily close off those
moves and there's absolutely nothing the
Americans can do about it. Um you know I
was watching these YouTube uh meetings
conferences where these like fivestar
admirals in generals were talking about
operation prosperity guardian and they
were saying how they were completely
surprised by the versatility the
flexibility the resilience of the
hoofies. They also said we have
absolutely no solution here. We don't
know how to deal with this. And the
third thing he said is, "Well, just keep
on doing this." Right? So, we know you
send in these massive warships against
an entrenched enemy with drones. There's
nothing you can do. You can't actually
hurt them, but you don't know what else
to do. So, you'll just keep on with this
strategy even though you are not even
though you know it's not effectual.
Okay? And so, what this what this tells
me and this is really really important
to appreciate is the military
bureaucracy has become dislodged from
reality itself. They don't care if they
win the war or not, right? Because they
don't suffer any consequences. If you
are the Iranians and you were to lose
this war, well, the entire elite would
be replaced. Your children uh your
grandchildren would lose social mobility
in the country. And quite honestly, a
lot of people will die in the process,
right? So look at look at look at Iraq.
The seatarian warfare has killed
millions of people, right? So for the
Iranians, this is like a life and death
struggle, right? the Americans. The
worst that can happen maybe 10 years
from now when this war is totally lost,
Congress will call these generals before
Congress in a congressional testimony
and they'll shout at these generals for
two hours and that'll be it,
>> right?
>> That's the extent of the consequences
for losing a war for America.
>> What which Americans suffered because of
the loss of uh Vietnam? I mean because
of Afghanistan, because of Iraq.
Americans have been losing wars for the
past few decades. And there have been
actually no consequences. But the
military-industrial complex has gotten
wealthier and wealthier over these past
few decades. Go to Washington DC. Go to
Fairfax County. Go to Alexandria.
They're filthy rich. Right. So, so it's
a perverse situation where America is
incentivized to fight wars and continue
fighting wars even though there's no
clear path to victory.
>> So true. And and so uh scary at the same
time. you know, when we think about uh,
you know, our addiction to war in the
United States and what our, you know,
military leaders are doing, but also our
president, you know, you mentioned
something there, right? You said if we
fast forward 10 years and we're looking
back, you know, you know, America is
going to lose this war. Uh, I mean, do
you think that that we're at a point now
where we're on the path where America is
going to lose this war in Iran or have
they already lost this? So, I don't
think it's possible for America to win
this war anymore. And it's really only a
question of how badly will America lose
this war because it's entirely possible
like you have a Vietnam situation where
you've invested half a million troops
because it's some costic right at first
you have send in 5,000 troops and then
it becomes 10,000 and then before you
know it's like half a million. Same
thing happened in Vietnam when they sent
about you know 2,000 3,000 Marines to
capture an air base in Vietnam and that
that was it. That that was entire goal
where we'll just capture this air base
and then we'll leave and then like you
know a couple years later you're like
half a million. Right.
>> Right. So as long as America is able to
educate itself from Iran, America will
be fine. But if it's stuck with a ground
incursion and it's stuck in in the sunk
cost fallacy mentality and you have
mission creep, then America will be
forced to use a national draft and this
might instate a civil war in America. So
America cannot win this war. It's only a
question of like how badly do you want
to lose this war.
>> Um let's let's fast forward to 2028. Do
you think that Donald Trump will still
be president of the United States?
>> I I actually do think he will be
president of the United States in 2028.
I don't know how he will do it. There
are multiple paths that he can take in
order to be president again. So the
first is basically to declare war to
have congressional approval for war in
which case he he has the emergency
powers act and so he can suspend the
constitution and in elections and you
know he talked about about this with
Zillinsky right I'm not sure if you
remember but Zillinsky was visiting the
white house about um a couple years ago
um early on in Trump's second term and
they were at the White House and the
reporter asked Lensky why did you
suspend the constitution and like will
you ever leave office and when when will
there be elections and Lensky is like
well we're war. So therefore, we have to
suspend the Constitution. Therefore, we
can't we can't have elections. Now,
Trump's like, "Wait, wait, wait, you
guys can do that, right?"
>> And then like, "Yeah, we can." Do you
like that? He's like, "Yeah, I do
actually." Right? So, so I mean, it's
it's in his head. I mean, like because
Trump, regardless of what you think of
Trump, he speaks his mind. He's not
capable of like subrifuge. Okay? He He's
not going to think one thing and say
another thing. He's just going to speak
his mind, right? So, I and so that's one
possibility. But another possibility
which I think is much more likely is um
so in the constitution there's something
called the 22nd amendment uh which
prohibits anyone from serving for more
than two terms and it is possible to
serve no more than 10 years as president
of United States. Okay, that's that the
22nd amendment. Nowhere does it say that
you that you cannot run as a vice
president in 2028 and then have the
president resign and then you become the
president. That's a loophole in the
constitution. So I I can see a scenario
where and I think I think this is this
is a very possible scenario where Dawn
Jr. the son is the papa ticket and his
father is the vice president and the the
Democratic side you have Obama running
for the Democrats and this would be like
the epic matchup of the century Obama
Trump in 2028. I think it is a
possibility.
>> Wow. That would be that would be the
epic ma match up of the century.
>> Yeah. Yeah. But but look, I mean, if you
just look at the at at these two past
years, the corruption of the Trump
family has just been staggering, right?
It is possible to pay him a certain
amount amount of money and you will get
a pardon from him. And this is what a
lot of these crypto currency
billionaires have done. They've
basically bribed bribed the Trump family
to invest in their companies for free.
And this is has allowed a lot of
political favors from Trump. Also, you
look at a lot of like this stock market
betting, right? It's weird very weird
how you know Trump declares war and the
stock market oil prices go up then Trump
family comes in and shorts it right then
Trump's like peace the the ores go down
and then and then Trump family profits
okay so if in 2028 there's a democratic
uh administration the first thing
they're going to do is go after the
Trump family and investigate them to
death that's that that's the only that's
the only thing they will do and that
that's the only thing that the voter
base will want So Trump has basically um
dug himself a huge hole. And if if he
were to ever to leave office, he knows
he's dead in the water because this is
exactly what happened um when he left
office in 2020 uh 2021. The Democrats
launched warfare against him. They try
to bankrupt him. Uh they tried to remove
him from the ballot. They they raided
his house in Marila. So they know
exactly what will happen. Let's let's if
we're sitting here in Beijing a year
from now, what do you think that we're
going to be talking about in regards to
the Iran war? How do you think this in
the next if you can give a prediction in
the next 12 months?
>> Yeah. So, I think a year from now things
will be a lot worse for the global
economy. So, rather than us talking
about the Iran war,
>> we're instead we might be talking about
the economy, how the global economy has
collapsed. So there's been uh quite a
lot of movement that suggests that the
global economy is heading towards
collapse. The thing that I'm I've been
watching these past few days is the
Japanese have carried have cancelled the
yen carry trade. Uh I'm not sure if
you're familiar with with what that is.
The yen carry trade. So what the yen
carry trade is this because of deflation
in the Japanese economy the bank of
Japan has been trying to print as much
money as possible to create liquidity in
the economy. So what they've been doing
is they've been lending money to
Japanese corporations and banks at zero
interest.
>> Correct?
>> But because these are companies and
they're only interested in profit, what
they do is they take this money and then
buy US treasuries which pays 5%
interest, right? And this this this is
what's called the the yan carry trade.
And if you think about it, it is this
massive um liquidity from Japan to the
United States. So it's really Japan
subsidizing the American economy.
Correct. And this is has what's allowed
for you know huge increases in the stock
market huge increases in the American
economy. But because of this war in Iran
uh because of this overall economic
males in Japan the Japanese yen has been
under a lot of pressure. And so the only
way to relieve this pressure is for the
bank of Japan to raise interest rates.
But if you raise interest rates, that
forces the rep repatriation of capital
from the United States back into Japan.
Basically, you basically cancel the yang
carrier trade, right?
>> And if that and so in the long term,
this means problems for the Japanese
economy, but it also means that
eventually the American economy will the
bubble will burst. Okay? And right now
there are two major bubbles in the
American economy. They are the private
credit bubble and they are the AI
bubble. And and actually both are are
interrelated. And so uh the a bubble uh
it's completely propped up by liquidity
from overseas primarily from Japan from
the GCC. As we know the GCC is under a
lot of uh pressure because of this war.
They're no long able to export oil.
Japan is also a lot under a lot of
pressure because they take this oil and
and transform it into manufactured goods
to export around the world. Right.
>> Right. So the entire global economy is
now under a lot of stress and so you you
we're seeing a lot of very powerful
institutions like the Bank of
International Settlements come out and
say the AI bubble is about to burst
which means okay and this is really
important they're about to engineer a
financial crisis in America right
they're about to pop a bubble in which
case people's attention turn away from
the war in Iran and towards economic
collapse around the world and so that's
what we'll be talking about in in a
year's time how in a year's time. You
have massive unemployment. You have
stock market collapse around the world.
You'll have companies going bankrupt.
It'll be very expensive to fly. There'll
be energy lockdowns all around the
world. And that I think will be the big
story of 2027.
>> Well, professor, uh, this has been an
absolutely fascinating chat. I just want
to say once again, thank you so much for
inviting me to your home and thank you
so much for spending time with me today.
>> No, just always love learning from you
and I know our guests as well. Uh for
everybody, we're going to put all the
links to Professor Jang's uh social
media so that you can follow along. And
make sure you drop us a comment. Let us
know what you think.